A period is a natural part of a person’s life when the body is preparing for pregnancy. If no pregnancy occurs, the lining of the uterus sheds. This is known as your period.
Periods start during puberty, when your body starts to change as an adult and has the ability to reproduce.
The first period occurs at around the age of 10-15 years old, but will vary with each individual.
Periods come every 26-35 days and last 3-7 days. The time between your periods and the length of your period can vary with each individual. Periods take time to regulate.
Common period symptoms include bloating, cravings, irritability, low energy, acne and cramps. You can manage these symptoms with sleep, hot compresses, movement and a healthy diet.
Period symptoms can change each month depending on your lifestyle, mental- emotional changes, stressors and physical activity.
Approximately 50-80ml of blood exits your body during a period, equaling to about 10-18 pads/tampons per cycle.
There are 4 phases in your cycle: menstruation, follicular phase, ovulation phase and luteal phase.
Canadians that menstruate spend an estimated $6,000 on menstrual products in their lifetime.
One third of Canadian menstruators, under the age of 25 struggle to afford menstrual products or can’t access them at all.
Another word for menstruation is “catamenia,” from the Greek word katamenia (kata = by + menia = month).
The word “period” first appeared on TV in a Tampax advertisement in 1985, starring Courteney Cox.
There is a board game that educates youth all about periods, called “The Period Game”
Nearly 1 in 4 young people don’t know why people get periods or how to manage them.
1 in 3 young people don’t feel prepared for their first period.
 Approximately 11,000 disposable products are used in an average menstruator’s lifetime.
The average menstruator spends nearly 10 years menstruating in their lifetime.
A man named Dr. Earle Haas invented the first modern tampon in 1931, though variations of tampons were used thousands of years prior.
Disney made a movie about periods in the 1940s called, “The Story Of Menstruation.”
The documentary “Period. End of a Sentence” follows a group of Indian women fighting the stigma of menstruation and begin manufacturing pads. The documentary won an Academy Award in 2019.
An estimated 20 billion pads, tampons and applicators are sent to North American landfills annually.
Only 46% of Canadians feel comfortable talking about periods. Periods rank lower in comfortability to talk about than politics, sex, and Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs).
Your menstrual cycle and periods are controlled by hormones, like estrogen and progesterone.
70% of menstruators have missed work, school or social activities because of their period.
The menstrual period occurs 14 days after ovulation.
Ovulation occurs halfway between your cycle when your hormones tell one of your ovaries to release a mature egg.
Since plastic can take as long as 500 years for pads & tampons to decompose, that means every disposable menstrual product that’s ever been used is still sitting in a landfill.
63% of young people believe the government should do more to provide free period products to those who need them.